"I'm having a lot of fun breaking things and then putting them back together, and just remembering the joy of turning a set of instructions into something useful and fun, like I did when I was a kid."
- Wil Wheaton, WIL WHEATON dot NETHome | Buy on No Starch Press | Buy on Amazon | @AlSweigart |
Automate the Boring Stuff with Python
By Al Sweigart. Free to read under a Creative Commons license.


Purchase directly from the publisher to get free PDF, Kindle, and epub ebook copies.
Buy on Amazon



Use this link to sign up for the Automate the Boring Stuff with Python online course on Udemy.
Preview the first 15 of the course's 50 videos for free on YouTube.
"The best part of programming is the triumph of seeing the machine do something useful. Automate the Boring Stuff with Python frames all of programming as these small triumphs; it makes the boring fun."
- Hilary Mason, Founder of Fast Forward Labs and Data Scientist in Residence at Accel
"I'm having a lot of fun breaking things and then putting them back together, and just remembering the joy of turning a set of instructions into something useful and fun, like I did when I was a kid."
- Wil Wheaton, WIL WHEATON dot NET
Practical programming for total beginners.
If you've ever spent hours renaming files or updating hundreds of spreadsheet cells, you know how tedious tasks like these can be. But what if you could have your computer do them for you?
In Automate the Boring Stuff with Python, you'll learn how to use Python to write programs that do in minutes what would take you hours to do by hand-no prior programming experience required. Once you've mastered the basics of programming, you'll create Python programs that effortlessly perform useful and impressive feats of automation to:
Search for text in a file or across multiple files
Create, update, move, and rename files and folders
Search the Web and download online content
Update and format data in Excel spreadsheets of any size
Split, merge, watermark, and encrypt PDFs
Send reminder emails and text notifications
Fill out online forms
Step-by-step instructions walk you through each program, and practice projects at the end of each chapter challenge you to improve those programs and use your newfound skills to automate similar tasks.
Don't spend your time doing work a well-trained monkey could do. Even if you've never written a line of code, you can make your computer do the grunt work. Learn how in Automate the Boring Stuff with Python.
Udemy Online Video Course
The Automate the Boring Stuff with Python Programming online course on Udemy covers most of the content of the book. If you'd prefer a video format for learning to program, you can use this link to get a 70% discount. You will have lifetime access to the course content and can post questions to the course's forums.
You can preview the first 15 of the course's 50 videos on YouTube for free.
Like this book? Writing a review helps get it in front of more people!
Table of Contents
Chapter 0 – Introduction
Chapter 1 – Python Basics
Chapter 2 – Flow Control
Chapter 3 – Functions
Chapter 4 – Lists
Chapter 5 – Dictionaries and Structuring Data
Chapter 6 – Manipulating Strings
Chapter 7 – Pattern Matching with Regular Expressions
Chapter 8 – Input Validation
Chapter 9 – Reading and Writing Files
Chapter 10 – Organizing Files
Chapter 11 – Debugging
Chapter 12 – Web Scraping
Chapter 13 – Working with Excel Spreadsheets
Chapter 14 – Working with Google Spreadsheets
Chapter 15 – Working with PDF and Word Documents
Chapter 16 – Working with CSV Files and JSON Data
Chapter 17 – Keeping Time, Scheduling Tasks, and Launching Programs
Chapter 18 – Sending Email and Text Messages
Chapter 19 – Manipulating Images
Chapter 20 – Controlling the Keyboard and Mouse with GUI Automation
Appendix A – Installing Third-Party Modules
Appendix B – Running Programs
Appendix C – Answers to the Practice Questions
(Read the 1st edition.)
Additional Content
Download files used in the book
List of CSS Selector Tutorials
List of JSON APIs
List of Programming Practice Sites
List of Web Comics
Schedulers for Windows, Mac, and Linux
How to Do PyCon (or any tech conference)
About the Author
Al Sweigart is a software developer and teaches programming to kids and adults. He has written several books for beginners, including Scratch Programming Playground, Cracking Codes with Python, Invent Your Own Computer Games with Python, and Making Games with Python & Pygame
Support the author by purchasing the print/ebook bundle from No Starch Press or separately on Amazon.
Read the author's other Creative Commons licensed Python books.